#Data SourceThe original raw dataset was collected from the accelerometers from the Samsung Galaxy S smartphone. A full description is available at the site where the data was obtained: http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones The raw dataset was downloaded was obtained from the link below:https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip #Tidy DatasetThe set of variables that are included in the tidy dataset are the mean and standard deviation of each of the features below. The features are normalized and bounded within [-1,1].In addition to the variables, the tidy dataset includes a column with the Subject ID and Activity. Subject ID is a unique identifier for the individual in the study and ranges from 1 to 30. The Activity labels the activity at the time during which the accelerometer data was collected. Activity labels are walking, walking upstairs, walking downstairs, sitting, standing and laying.The information below for the feature selection for this dataset was obtained from the README and features.txt files in the original dataset.The features selected for this database come from the accelerometer and gyroscope 3-axial raw signals tAcc-XYZ and tGyro-XYZ. These time domain signals (prefix 't' to denote time) were captured at a constant rate of 50 Hz. Then they were filtered using a median filter and a 3rd order low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 20 Hz to remove noise. Similarly, the acceleration signal was then separated into body and gravity acceleration signals (tBodyAcc-XYZ and tGravityAcc-XYZ) using another low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 0.3 Hz. Subsequently, the body linear acceleration and angular velocity were derived in time to obtain Jerk signals (tBodyAccJerk-XYZ and tBodyGyroJerk-XYZ). Also the magnitude of these three-dimensional signals were calculated using the Euclidean norm (tBodyAccMag, tGravityAccMag, tBodyAccJerkMag, tBodyGyroMag, tBodyGyroJerkMag). Finally a Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) was applied to some of these signals producing fBodyAcc-XYZ, fBodyAccJerk-XYZ, fBodyGyro-XYZ, fBodyAccJerkMag, fBodyGyroMag, fBodyGyroJerkMag. (Note the 'f' to indicate frequency domain signals). These signals were used to estimate variables of the feature vector for each pattern:  '-XYZ' is used to denote 3-axial signals in the X, Y and Z directions.tBodyAcc-XYZtGravityAcc-XYZtBodyAccJerk-XYZtBodyGyro-XYZtBodyGyroJerk-XYZtBodyAccMagtGravityAccMagtBodyAccJerkMagtBodyGyroMagtBodyGyroJerkMagfBodyAcc-XYZfBodyAccJerk-XYZfBodyGyro-XYZfBodyAccMagfBodyAccJerkMagfBodyGyroMagfBodyGyroJerkMagNote: variables labeled with XYZ represent 3 separate variables for the x, y and z direction.The variables names in the tidy dataset have the following format:tBodyAcc-mean()-XWhere the variable above represents the mean of the tBodyAcc feature in the X direction.#Transformations- Added 'subjectID' column name to subject_train and subject_test data- Added 'activity' column name to y_train and y_test data sets- Added column names from features file to x_train and x_test datasets- Merged all six datasets into a single data table- Selected variables for mean and standard deviation, removing all other feature variables- Replaced numeric labels for Activity with descriptive labels- Created a summary table for variable averages by subject id + activity 