#DescriptionThe purpose of this project is to demonstrate your ability to collect, work with, and clean a data set. The goal is to prepare tidy data that can be used for later analysis. You will be graded by your peers on a series of yes/no questions related to the project. You will be required to submit: 1) a tidy data set as described below, 2) a link to a Github repository with your script for performing the analysis, and 3) a code book that describes the variables, the data, and any transformations or work that you performed to clean up the data called CodeBook.md. You should also include a README.md in the repo with your scripts. This repo explains how all of the scripts work and how they are connected.  One of the most exciting areas in all of data science right now is wearable computing - see for example this article . Companies like Fitbit, Nike, and Jawbone Up are racing to develop the most advanced algorithms to attract new users. The data linked to from the course website represent data collected from the accelerometers from the Samsung Galaxy S smartphone. A full description is available at the site where the data was obtained: http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones Here are the data for the project: https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip You should create one R script called run_analysis.R that does the following. Merges the training and the test sets to create one data set.Extracts only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement. Uses descriptive activity names to name the activities in the data setAppropriately labels the data set with descriptive variable names. From the data set in step 4, creates a second, independent tidy data set with the average of each variable for each activity and each subject.#Contents of Repository- Codebook.MD contains information about the data source and tidy dataset- README.MD (this file) describes the purpose of the tidy dataset and provides instructions for re-creating the tidy dataset from the raw dataset - run_analysis.R is script that will generate the tidy dataset called TidyDT from the raw dataset. The script will also create a second tidy dataset, variableAVG, that contained the average value of each variable for each unique subject ID and Activity.#Creating the Tidy Dataset- Download and unzip the raw dataset into your working directory (do not change the folder name)- Open R studio- Run the script from run_analysis.R- Output of the script will be variableAVG, which will be created as a text file in your working directory